# Fly Stocks
## Temperature stress measurements were conducted using the wildtype inbred stock Canton-S (courtesy of Dr. Michelle Arbeitmen) of D. melanogaster, collected from Canton, Ohio, USA, and the wildtype stock MV2-25 (courtesy of Dr. Mohamed Noor) of D. pseudoobscura, collected from Mesa Verde, Colorado, USA. 
# Fly Husbandry and cross design
## All stocks of D. melanogaster and D. pseudoobscura were maintained at 25ºC and 20.5ºC, respectively with a photoperiod of 12:12 (light:dark) in incubators. Flies were reared on standard cornmeal-sugar-yeast-agar media in polypropylene enclosures. In each treatment group, 15 replicate crosses were set up with 15 flies approximately, in a 2:1, female-male ratio, aiming for ~3500 progeny per species. Parental flies were reared under control conditions and virgin females were collected and held at those conditions until reaching complete sexual maturity, 2 days for D. melanogaster and 7 days for D. pseudoobscura. Before conducting the experiment, it was noted from previous studies that D. melanogaster could tolerate temperatures as high as 30ºC (McKenzie & Parsons, 1974). To determine the highest non-lethal temperature for D. melanogaster, preliminary studies were conducted with 0.5ºC temperature increments up to 30ºC. The highest non-lethal temperature for Canton-S D. melanogaster where the flies were able to reproduce was 29.5ºC, which was selected for the high temperature treatment. For the control treatment, the optimum temperature of 25ºC for D. melanogaster and 20.5ºC for D. pseudoobscura was used. The control temperature for D. melanogaster was also used as the high temperature for D. pseudoobscura to optimize the use of incubator space. F1 crosses were reared in high temperature treatment conditions throughout development, 29.5 ºC and 25ºC for D. melanogaster and D. pseudoobscura, respectively (Fig.1). These treatment temperatures allowed an increase in the temperature by 4.5 ºC above the optimal temperature for each species as a standard adjustment. Specifically, we opted to apply a constant temperature shift in each species, as opposed to the same specific temperature, because in nature they occupy different micro-habitats based on behavior and environmental preferences (Diepenbrock & Burrack, 2017; Kinzner et al., 2019; Taylor, 1987). While we cannot account for behavioral preference in a laboratory setting, we expect that the shifts in temperature of the micro-habitats due to global climate change would be to the same degree in both species. 
## After the F1 progeny of both species hatched from the pupal case, they were held under either treatment conditions for additional exposure as an adult (Egg + Larva + Pupa + Adult) or switched to the control temperature for developmental exposure only (Egg + Larva + Pupa). This resulted in a total of 4 treatment groups - (i) reared at control and kept in control (C-C), (ii) reared at control and switched to high temperature (C-H), (iii) reared in high temperature and switched to control (H-C), and (iv) reared in high temperature and kept in high temperature (H-H).

